Translator: Mohamed Gouraizim Auditor: ali alshalali
when I was a kid,
The disaster we were concerned about was nuclear war.
That's why we had such a barrel in the basement,
Filled with food and water cans.
When a nuclear attack occurs,
Presumably taking shelter in the basement, eating from the contents of the barrel.
Today the greatest global catastrophe
It doesn't look like this.
Rather, it looks like this.
If anything will kill more than 10 million people in the next few decades,
It is likely to be a highly contagious virus
It is not war.
Not rockets, but microbes.
Part of the reason behind this is
Our investment of huge sums for nuclear deterrence
But in reality we are investing very little in stopping epidemics.
We are not ready for the next epidemic.
Let's look at Ebola.
I'm sure each of you saw it in the newspapers,
Many challenging challenges.
I carefully tracked it through the analysis tools
Used to monitor polio eradication.
As you have seen in the past,
The problem was that the system was not working well enough,
Rather, there is no system at all.
In fact, there were some key pieces missing.
We had no group of epidemiologists ready to go
To see what the disease was, look at how quickly it has spread.
The status reports came on paper.
It is too late before being put online
It was not very accurate.
We had no medical team ready to go.
We had no way to prepare people.
MSF has done a great job of organizing volunteers.
However, we are still far from what should have been
It is to get thousands of workers in these countries.
A great pandemic may require that we have hundreds of thousands of workers.
No one was looking for a cure.
Nobody to look at the diagnosis.
Nobody will know which tool should be used.
For example, we could have taken blood from survivors,
Treat it, and put this plasma back in people to protect them.
But this was never tried.
So there were a lot of things missing.
This was a true global failure
The Health Organization was established to monitor epidemics, not to do the things that I talked about.
However, in movies it looks very different.
There is a group of handsome epidemiologists ready to go,
They move, they save people, but it's just a representation.
Failure to prepare may allow the next epidemic
To be more destructive than Ebola
Let's look at the evolution of Ebola during this year.
Killed about 10,000 people,
Most of them belonged to the three countries in West Africa.
There are three reasons why the epidemic may not spread further.
The first reason is due to the heroic work done by health workers.
They treat people and prevent more cases.
The second is the nature of the virus.
Ebola does not spread through the air.
When the disease reaches the stage of infection,
Most of the infected people are in bed.
Third, the epidemic has not entered many urban areas.
That was just luck.
If he entered urban areas,
The numbers would have been much greater.
So next time, we may not be very lucky.
An individual can be infected with a contagious virus but feel well able to
From riding a plane or going to the market.
The source of the virus can be from natural epidemics such as Ebola,
Or it could be biological terrorism.
There are things that can make the situation much worse.
In fact, let's look at a model of a virus spreading through the air,
Like the Spanish flu that appeared in 1918.
This is what can happen.
It can spread all over the world very, very quickly.
And you can see more than 30 million deaths from this epidemic.
So this is a serious problem.
We have to take care of it.
But in fact, we can build a very good response system.
We have the advantages of all science and technology that we talked about.
We have cell phones
To obtain information from the public and to communicate it with them.
We have satellite maps that enable us to see where and where people are located.
We have this progress in biology
Which should make a tremendous change in the time needed to deal with the virus
We will be able to make medicines and vaccines appropriate for this virus.
So we have tools,
But these tools need to be integrated into the global health system.
And we need to be prepared.
I think the best lessons are how to prepare
It is again, what we do for war.
We have soldiers ready to go at any moment.
We have enough reserves for large numbers of people.
NATO has a mobile unit that can be deployed very quickly.
NATO conducts a lot of war games to check if their soldiers are well trained?
Do they understand about fuel and logistics
And the same radio frequencies?
So they are always ready to go.
Those were some of the things we needed to deal with epidemics.
What are the basic pieces?
First, we need strong health systems in poor countries.
Mothers can give birth safely,
And children have access to all vaccines.
He was also able to reveal the beginning of the epidemic early.
We need permanent medical staff
Lots of trained and experienced people
They are ready to take off.
We need to accompany this medical staff with the army.
In order to take advantage of the army's ability to move quickly and act
And secure the areas.
We have to do a simulation,
Bacterial games, not war games, so we can see vulnerabilities.
The last time bacterial games were performed in the United States
It was 2001, and it wasn't.
So far the result is germs: 1, people: 0.
Finally, we need in-depth research into the areas of vaccines and diagnostic methods.
There are some great discoveries, such as the associated gland virus,
Which could have spread very quickly.
Now, I don’t know how much it will cost specifically from a budget,
But I'm sure it is very minimal compared to potential damage.
The World Bank estimates that if we have a flu pandemic around the world,
Then global wealth will decrease by more than three trillion dollars
We will have millions and millions of deaths.
These investments will provide significant benefits
Beyond just being prepared to face the epidemic.
Primary health care, in-depth research,
These things will reduce the disparity in global health
It will make the world more just and also safer.
So I think this should be a priority.
There is no need to panic.
We don't have to hoard spaghetti or take cover in the basement.
But we need to act, because time is not on our side.
In fact, there is one positive thing that can be learned from the Ebola epidemic,
It could be an early warning, or a wake-up call, to prepare.
If we start now, we can be ready for the next pandemic.
Thanks.
(clap)